---
layout: post
title:  White Hair Movement
date:   2023-12-20 11:40:16
description: Explanation about white hair movement
tags: thoughts
categories: thoughts
published: true
---


"Hui Dang" was a term used during the Qing Dynasty to collectively refer to various secret societies that had the objective of overthrowing the Qing and restoring the Ming Dynasty. The Qing government, faced with these anti-Qing movements often organized in secret societies, resorted to severe repression. The Qing legal code specifically included provisions against forming brotherhoods of non-relatives and organizing societies, labeling such activities as “conspiracy to rebel without action.” Throughout the Qing rule, these secret societies, or "会党", organized numerous armed uprisings against the Qing, with the Taiping Rebellion led by the God Worshipping Society and the Wuchang Uprising initiated by the Tongmenghui being the most notable.

Historically, forming societies among the common people has been essential for addressing the grievances of the oppressed; no single individual can achieve a revolution alone. Without these societies, the masses would have to rely solely on the conscience of the rulers and the existing political order, such as the benevolence and justice of local magistrates, which is unsustainable. Without these grassroots organizations, the ruling powers could easily divide the people into disconnected, indifferent units, like self-sufficient farmers and Shenzhen laborers, thereby preventing large-scale resistance.

The "White Hair Movement," which occurred on February 8, 2023, was a protest march against medical insurance reform initiated by tens of thousands of retired seniors in Wuhan. This demonstration was significantly larger than any protest led by young people in the past decade and was organized merely through smartphones and WeChat groups. The protestors were primarily over 60 years old, mostly retired workers from Wuhan Steel and some from other enterprises and institutions. They sang "The Internationale" and chanted protest slogans at the scene. The protest was triggered by the Wuhan municipal government's decision to reduce the monthly contribution to retirees' personal medical insurance accounts from 260 yuan to 83 yuan. The demonstrators threatened to hold a rights protection meeting in Zhongshan Park on February 15 and to impeach the mayor if there was no official response. A message circulated in WeChat groups four days before the protest, on February 4, read:

> "The mayor is demanded to respond before February 8th; otherwise, on February 15th, a 'Wuhan Retirees Medical Insurance Rights Protection Meeting' and a 'Wuhan Retired Military Personnel Medical Insurance Rights Protection Meeting' will be convened in Zhongshan Park. A march will be organized, the route encircling the city government offices, from the Wusheng Road at the Yangtze River Bridge to the Wuchang Parade Ground. We demand live coverage by Jing Shi Broadcasting and Chu Tian City Daily reporters - permission first, then marching. If the issue remains unresolved by the end of this month, all the city's retirees will demand the mayor's impeachment for non-action!"

The style of this text does not seem to be written by young people, but rather with a commanding tone, reminiscent of the Cultural Revolution era, especially the part about the marching route. The use of phrases like "demanding Jing Shi Broadcasting and Chu Tian City Daily reporters to attend" also carries a military-style command tone. This message seems to have spread among some elderly WeChat groups, with no related screenshots on social media, possibly because older people do not use social media. Additionally, the incorrect punctuation in "Chu Tian City Daily" suggests it was written by an older person using handwriting input.

We should note that the majority of retirees participating in the white-haired movement were once workers at the Wuhan Iron and Steel Factory. The Wugang Group, established after the founding of the People's Republic of China, was the first large-scale steel joint enterprise, located in Qingshan District, Wuhan, Hubei Province, and is also a township-level unit under its jurisdiction. Construction began in 1955 and it officially started production in 1958. According to this description, Wuhan Iron and Steel Factory appears to have built a small, closely-knit community. Before the reform of state-owned enterprises, workers in state-owned units were assumed to have lifetime employment, so they did not have to worry about unemployment. Therefore, the relationship among workers was not like that of contract employees in today's internet companies, but rather they prepared to be colleagues for life. Additionally, we notice the "Anshan Constitution." At that time, the "Anshan Constitution" referred to a set of basic enterprise management experience summarized by the Anshan Iron and Steel Company in Anshan City, Liaoning Province, China, in the early 1960s. Its basic content was: "Adhere to political leadership, strengthen the leadership of the Party, engage in mass movements, implement 'Two Participations, One Reform, Three Combinations' (cadres participate in labor, workers participate in management, reform unreasonable rules and regulations, combination of workers, cadres, and technical personnel), and carry out a technological revolution." This system enabled workers and cadres to form a mutually supportive community, working together sincerely to improve the community's living standards. In September 1976, Zhang Chunqiao wrote in "Socialist Political Economy," which he led in compilation: "The 'Anshan Constitution,' personally involved in by Chairman Mao, is the basic principle for correctly handling the internal relations of socialist enterprises and managing socialist enterprises." He considered that the management of socialist enterprises could not deviate from these five principles. In 1986, the journal "Enterprise Management" stated: "The famous scientist Qian Xuesen visited Toyota Motor Corporation in Japan and saw that the company's management regulations included 'cadres participate in team work; workers participate in enterprise management; reform unreasonable rules; focus on technological breakthroughs; implement a combination of cadres, technical personnel, and workers.' The company leader introduced that this 'Two Participations, One Reform, Three Combinations' is your country's advanced management experience, and after we applied it, the effect was very good."

Moreover, some workers, with a sincere longing for socialism, built their own worker community. For example, an interview in 2007 with retirees who started working in the 1950s recorded the spontaneous formation of their community in 1950: "The old comrades all joined work in the 1950s ... We are all old Communists. I'll talk about my feelings before and after the planned economy and my views on some social phenomena. As ordinary people, the most fundamental thing is the issue of survival. At that time, there was not much difference between workers and cadres, nor between institutions and enterprises, and in terms of welfare, institutions were even worse than enterprises. Cadres in enterprises were also wholeheartedly serving the people. For example, at that time workers got overtime pay, but cadres did not. Party members and cadres were supposed to endure hardships first and enjoy later. In our factory, a cadre worked overtime with the workers until late, and after work, he treated the workers to a meal while he himself squatted in a corner eating steamed buns. The next day, the workers who worked overtime took a half-day off, but he went to work as usual. It can be said that the relationship between cadres and the masses was very harmonious, and the people respected him. Everything was considered from the perspective of the workers and the people. The workers also had no worries about the future, working in the factory felt like being at home, and they vied to work overtime after their shifts. The status of workers was also very high, and the country paid great attention to workers. For example, a master worker in our factory was burned while working overtime, and the country sent experts from Shanghai for treatment, and later used a helicopter to send him to Shanghai for surgery. Now? After working a lifetime, old and sick, without medical insurance, people dare not seek treatment and just wait to die! Prices are rising, children are laid off, 'sons don't support fathers, grandsons eat grandfathers' pension.' Another retired worker said: 'The working class no longer exists, it has been divided, now it's called social class, not social stratum, and the union has become a decoration.'"

Compared to the current situation of associations in China over the past decade, the historical worker communities seemed to have had a more powerful association. However, in recent years, there have still been significant worker resistance events. The largest scale worker protests in recent years occurred in November 2022, taking place in the Zhengzhou Foxconn Park riot and the riot in Haizhu District's urban village in Guangzhou. In the Zhengzhou Foxconn Park, the riot involved tens of thousands of migrant workers. The management system in the factory area could not ensure the health of the workers, and the coronavirus gradually spread within the factory area. However, the factory area and the government jointly suppressed it, preventing the workers from breaking through the blockade. Meanwhile, the park did not improve the living conditions of the workers, attempting to continue operations under harsh conditions, leading to a humanitarian crisis in the factory area. In November 2022, a large number of workers rioted, breaking through the blockade and fleeing the Foxconn Park. Similarly, in the urban village of Haizhu District in Guangzhou, thousands of migrant workers from Hubei, who had been locked down under the guise of pandemic control, collectively took to the streets, breaking through the blockades and smashing police cars in a large-scale conflict with the police. Due to their numerical advantage, the masses who took to the streets were victorious, successfully breaking through the blockaded community.

However, looking at the unemployment issue among today's youth, we can observe a different situation. On July 17, Chinese authorities announced that the unemployment rate among youth aged 16 to 24 in June this year was 21.3%. An article by Zhang Dandan, an associate professor of economics at Peking University, titled "The Possibly Underestimated Youth Unemployment Rate," suggests that in March this year, the youth unemployment rate in China peaked at 46.5%, far higher than the official figure of 19.7%. The current employment group is mainly post-1995 and post-2000 generations, but such a high rate of youth unemployment has not caused large-scale protests or widespread discussion in society, a situation that merits reflection. Zhang Dandan's article points out that, according to data published by China's National Bureau of Statistics, the urban youth population aged 16 to 24 in China was about 96 million in March this year, including 32 million in the labor force and 64 million not in the labor force. Of the 32 million in the labor force, 25.7 million were employed and 6.3 million were unemployed. Of the 64 million not in the labor force, 16 million were non-students, most of whom chose to "live off their parents," "lie flat," or be "full-time children." If these 16 million people are also considered unemployed, then the youth unemployment rate in March this year would have reached a peak of 46.5%.

We can say that the older generation of workers' community building based on socialist factory communities is no longer applicable in the last decade. Most modern factories are privately owned enterprises, with elimination systems and layoffs. After the reform of state-owned enterprises, modern state-owned enterprises have also switched to contract systems. State-owned enterprises, regardless of size, are all under contract systems and do not have lifetime employment. Therefore, workers and enterprise employees cannot expect to be colleagues for life but instead form more superficial interpersonal relationships. This has curbed large-scale, multi-level civil associations. However, contract-based enterprises do not inherently have disadvantages. Their disadvantage lies in the fact that, on the basis of the contract system, civil social organizations are deliberately suppressed by the government. This leaves surplus laborers without any means against capitalists. In the context of the demographic dividend, the job market is buyer-dominated. If laborers do not have the support of unions and civil organizations, they easily fall into involution.

With the widespread adoption of WeChat, people have abandoned traditional distributed communication tools such as private forums, personal blogs, emails, and offline meetings, and have fully embraced WeChat. However, in recent years, WeChat has implemented several restrictive strategies that have adversely affected the ability of people to form associations:

1. WeChat group membership is limited to 500 people.
2. Once a WeChat group reaches 200 members, new members can only join by invitation from existing members, creating a significant barrier to rapidly building social groups. In comparison, QQ groups popular a decade ago could accommodate up to 2000 members.
3. WeChat public accounts have introduced censorship, with real-time information on important social issues being subject to review and deletion. This has made it difficult for Chinese people who heavily rely on WeChat for community building to find other means to unite.
4. WeChat restricts accounts that disseminate information associated with grassroots associations, limiting their ability to post in Moments.
5. In group chats with over 100 members, WeChat has introduced speech review. If politically sensitive information appears, the group owner is summoned for a talk.
6. WeChat uses advanced natural language and image understanding technologies to block Moments containing sensitive hot topic information, limiting the spread of information within communities.

The implementation of these regulations has suppressed the behavior of forming associations in China, leading to a lack of social group involvement among the internet generation. This fragmentation into very small units has significantly harmed the rights and interests of workers and employees. For example, with the development of machine productivity, employers tend to lay off workers or reduce their salaries as they can produce more with less manpower. The emergence of advanced language models like ChatGPT enables an employee to complete a day's work in half the time, prompting employers to hire fewer workers instead of providing more holidays and benefits, especially in the absence of unions and a unified social voice. Fragmented workers are unable to effectively organize against employers who lay off staff. The state also seems to intentionally weaken the power of grassroots associations and unions, while strengthening official community building represented by state agencies and community grids. Especially during the three-year zero-COVID campaign, the community grid system effectively controlled all members of society. Through official community building, individuals find it hard to escape the dynamic zero-COVID system, and many fugitives were caught during this period. In Shenzhen, which is close to Hong Kong, there was a significant influx of people returning to mainland China from Hong Kong in early 2022, leading to sporadic outbreaks in the Futian District. To achieve dynamic zero-COVID, each urban village in Futian District was enclosed with walls and water horses, implementing 24-hour nucleic acid testing and facial recognition turnstiles at the entrances. Only residents with a 24-hour negative nucleic acid test could enter. Grid staff established WeChat groups for each building to precisely identify outsiders and residents without a negative nucleic acid test. This top-down official community building only allows residents to follow higher-level instructions, such as strictly implementing the 24-hour nucleic acid testing and lockdown policies, without independently building communities that serve local interests.

Young people are forced into a situation where they cannot effectively resist and protect their rights. However, workers' associations from the last century have been revived by elderly people's WeChat groups. With the proliferation of smartphones and WeChat among the elderly, many old friends and leaders have reconnected in retired worker WeChat groups, providing an organizational foundation for the "Silver-Haired Movement". This explains why thousands of elderly people could be mobilized to appear simultaneously in the center of Wuhan.

Between the 1950s and 1960s, the new socialist system provided an excellent environment for the construction of worker communities. Workers and cadres intermingled, creating spontaneous groups based around factories. However, the Cultural Revolution, with its encouragement of mass struggles, damaged the communities built among workers, cadres, and intellectuals during the 1950s and 1960s. Post-reform and opening up, the implementation of a contract system in state-owned enterprise reforms meant workers could be dismissed at any time, destabilizing factory communities and increasing mistrust among workers, cadres, and intellectuals. While prioritizing efficiency spurred rapid development in China's productivity, it also destroyed the original communities. A new form of community – informal labor unions to resist capitalist oppression – became urgently necessary. In recent years, China has deliberately disintegrated communities through internet service regulations by departments like the Cyberspace Administration of China, suppressing the initiation of civil social groups. Instead, the state relies on a top-down bureaucratic system for social governance, such as neighborhood committees and grid management systems. This has facilitated large-scale infrastructure projects but also led to government power and funding abuse. The lack of civil group oversight has resulted in a severe local debt crisis and widespread youth unemployment.

This lack of civil association has greatly influenced the post-95 and post-00 generations. Competition winners move further ahead in resource acquisition, embodying extreme individualism. Losers hover on the edge of unemployment. Relationships have become competitive, with little desire to build mutually beneficial, long-term communities, focusing instead on personal advancement. This profoundly affects young people's worldviews, engaging in futile competition to rank higher among peers in an adverse employment environment. Additionally, the absence of nurturing unions means even successful competitors lack protection once they lose their competitive edge, leading to phenomena like mass layoffs of programmers at the age of 35.
